Aflores plymouth (#234)
osisoft/Edge-Data-Store-Docs: content/sds/sds-streams.md

# Streams

> SdsStreams are collections of sequentially occurring values indexed by a single property, typically time series data. You define SdsStreams to organize incoming data from another system into the AVEVA Data Hub. To define an SdsStream, you must first define an SdsType, which defines the structure of the data you want to stream into a selected namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SdsStreams are collections of sequentially occurring values indexed by a single property, typically time series data. You define `SdsStreams ` to organize incoming data from another system into the AVEVA Data Hub. To define an `SdsStream`, you must first define an `SdsType`, which defines the structure of the data you want to stream into a selected namespace.
```

| `Name`              | String                           | Optional    | Yes		  | Friendly name |
| `Description`       | String                           | Optional    | Yes		  | Description text |
| `Indexes`           | IList\<SdsStreamIndex\>            | Optional    | No		  | Used to define secondary indexes for stream |
| `InterpolationMode` | SdsInterpolationMode             | Optional    | No		  | Interpolation setting of the stream. Default is null. |
| `ExtrapolationMode` | SdsExtrapolationMode             | Optional    | No		  | Extrapolation setting of the stream. Default is null. |
| `PropertyOverrides` | IList\<SdsStreamPropertyOverride\> | Optional    | No		  | Used to define unit of measure and interpolation mode overrides for a stream. |
| [Tags](xref:sds-streams-tags)*		| IList\<String\>					| Optional    | Yes		  | A list of tags denoting special attributes or categories.|
| [Metadata](xref:sds-streams-metadata)*	| IDictionary\<String, String\>	| Optional    | Yes		  | A dictionary of string keys and associated string values.  |

> **Note:** You can access stream metadata and tags through Metadata API and Tags API respectively. Because they are associated with SdsStream objects, you can use them as search criteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** You can access stream metadata and tags through Metadata API and Tags API respectively. Because they are associated with `SdsStream` objects, you can use them as search criteria.
```

## Rules for the stream identifier (SdsStream.Id)

The stream identifier, `SdsStream.Id`, has the following requirements:

- Is not case sensitive.

> - Cannot just be whitespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cannot consist of only whitespace```

- Cannot contain leading or trailing whitespace.

- Cannot contain forward slash ("/").

> - Contains a maximum of 100 characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Contains a maximum of 100 characters
```

## Indexes

While you define the primary index on the type, the stream is where you define secondary indexes.
If the primary index defined on the type is a compound index, secondary indexes on the stream are allowed as long as that compound index does not have more than two properties. For more information on compound indexes, see [Indexes](xref:sdsIndexes#compound-indexes).

## Interpolation and extrapolation

> The `InterpolationMode`, `ExtrapolationMode`, and `PropertyOverrides` can be used to determine how a specific stream reads data. These read characteristics are inherited from the type if they are not defined at the stream level. For more information about type read characteristics and how these characteristics dictate how events are read, see [Types](xref:sdsTypes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `InterpolationMode`, `ExtrapolationMode`, and `PropertyOverrides` to determine how a specific stream reads data. These read characteristics are inherited from the type if they are not defined at the stream level. For more information about type read characteristics and how these characteristics dictate how events are read, see [Types](xref:sdsTypes).
```

## SdsStreamPropertyOverride

The `SdsStreamPropertyOverride` object provides a way to override interpolation behavior and unit of measure for individual SdsType Properties for a specific SdsStream.

The `SdsStreamPropertyOverride` object has the following structure.

| Property          | Type                 | Optionality | Details |
|-------------------|----------------------|-------------|---------|
| `SdsTypePropertyId` | String               | Required    | SdsTypeProperty identifier |
| `InterpolationMode` | SdsInterpolationMode | Optional    | Interpolation setting. Default is null |
| `Uom`               | String               | Optional    | Unit of measure |

The unit of measure can be overridden for any type property defined by the stream type, including primary keys and secondary indexes. For more information about type property units of measure, see [Types](xref:sdsTypes).

Read characteristics of the stream are determined by the type and the `PropertyOverrides` of the stream. The interpolation mode for non-index properties can be defined and overridden at the stream level. For more information about type read characteristics, see [Types](xref:sdsTypes).

> If the SdsType `InterpolationMode` is set to `Discrete`, it cannot be overridden at any level. When `InterpolationMode` is set to `Discrete` and an event is not defined for that index, a null value is returned for the entire event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you set the `SdsType ` `InterpolationMode` to `Discrete`, it cannot be overridden at any level. When you set `InterpolationMode` to `Discrete` and an event is not defined for that index, a `null` value is returned for the entire event.
```
